Kevin Otter - MA-EL - Sept 30 2025

00:00:00 Kevin Otter: But for ten kids, well, I mean, I've had twenty three up here, but yeah.

00:00:05 Matthew Lee: Not so gigantic.

00:00:05 Kevin Otter: No. And the problem with it is, is that they're loud kids and there's no insulation in the floors. Right. So the they're constantly like, stop moving. Mr.. Every time you wheel your chair across the room. I'm like, yeah, but I can do it. But yeah, I love this place.

00:00:24 Matthew Lee: We are, uh. We are good to go.

00:00:27 Kevin Otter: All right.

00:00:28 Matthew Lee: All right. Well, thank you for having us over. No problem. Um, at first, like, we begin by asking who you are, where you teach, and what you teach at. Where you teach.

00:00:39 Kevin Otter: Sure. Yeah. I'm Kevin otter. I teach at Northumberland Christian School. I've been teaching here since two thousand and nine. Uh, currently I teach the seven eight class, but I also teach history, Bible and socials to the intermediate class. And I get to spend forty minutes a week in kindergarten, which is a riot doing Bible with them. So. Okay.

00:00:59 Matthew Lee: Right. Now, what brought you into teaching?

00:01:02 Kevin Otter: So I remember loving my teachers, but not loving school. Um, I remember in grade two, I had a teacher at Pickering Christian School who would come in as different characters into the room, and I was like, she gets to play all day long. And I thought that was really cool. And then when I came here, I had awesome teachers. Miss V in grade three was like a good teacher that memorable activities, making marionettes and things like that. And even though I didn't always love school, I loved my teachers. And I thought, if I can be a teacher and make school a little more enjoyable for kids like me than I can, you know, make school even better for myself in a way, you know? Um, and so that's the teacher I try to be. Don't always do it, but do my best.

00:01:56 Matthew Lee: That's kind of how you define your vocation?

00:01:59 Kevin Otter: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. It becomes, you know what didn't work for me in school? What what is what am I restricted by in terms of the idea of school anyway? Right. What? What can't I change? But what can I change inside that? How can I connect with different kids in different, you know, who are in different places, but all have them engaged with what we're doing? Um, and that's. Yeah, that's the that's what I try to do every day. Yeah.

00:02:31 Matthew Lee: But perhaps more distinctively, like, how about your vocation? More specifically as, uh, a Christian teacher in a Christian school? Like how how does that change?

00:02:43 Kevin Otter: Yeah. Interesting. I loved I loved Bible stories as a kid, and I had tons of questions. Um, but as a kid, I wasn't always given answers that were satisfactory to me or that really answered the questions. And as a young adult, I had more questions than answers. Um, but I never stopped asking the questions. And so it's kind of funny. People who knew me as a kid might say, like, he's a Christian school teacher, right? But I never I never left because it's about asking those tough questions, um, and finding the most faithful answers with the information we're given and then trying to live a life that that does those things. Hi. I'm in an interview. Is it an emergency? This is my daughter.

00:03:41 Speaker 3: Where's your boy?

00:03:43 Kevin Otter: Where's my.

00:03:44 Speaker 3: Boy? Boy, this is part needs it.

00:03:46 Kevin Otter: So I don't have board spray, but I have this purple cloth and a Ziploc bag of water and hand sanitizer.

00:03:53 Speaker 3: Okay.

00:03:54 Kevin Otter: She's welcome to it. Go ahead. You're not walking on anything? Yeah. This better not be for house plants. Yeah.

00:04:04 Speaker 3: It's just not in a bag.

00:04:05 Kevin Otter: The bag is on top of the red box.

00:04:08 Speaker 3: Right. Thanks.

00:04:10 Kevin Otter: You're welcome.

00:04:11 Speaker 3: For the clothes thing?

00:04:13 Kevin Otter: Yeah. It's water and hand sanitizer and leftover dry erase marker goop. All right. Cool.

00:04:17 Speaker 3: You.

00:04:18 Kevin Otter: Love you.

00:04:19 Speaker 3: Love you.

00:04:24 Kevin Otter: I. I never failed to disappoint her.

00:04:29 Matthew Lee: Is that a part of your vacation?

00:04:30 Kevin Otter: Yeah, it's definitely part of my vacation. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. So, like, exploring the world through the lens of of Jesus and learning the things that help us be better people. Um, and not not in terms of better people. Like, compared to other people, but just better than we were the day before. Um, And asking hard questions, being okay with ambiguous answers. Um, but still having conviction along the way is, you know, is that's what I'm still doing, I think, as an adult. And so I want to foster that in kids so that they constantly keep asking those tough questions or, um, seeing if there's better answers out there as well. So yeah.

00:05:20 Matthew Lee: You said that, um, that you never left. Um, so for you, you know, does your faith and life as a Christian, um, has that always been a part also with your desire to be a teacher? Has it?

00:05:37 Kevin Otter: Mm. I don't know that Christian school teaching was number one on my list when I went into, um, university. But it's interesting because it was always part of my learning. Um, use the story or don't. But like I took a course on John Milton. We read Paradise Lost in my undergrad, and the professor was fascinated by the things I would say. And she's like, how do you know this? Like, have you studied John Milton before? And I'm like, no, this is Sunday school stuff for us. Like we read Paradise Lost. And so I'm like, I just know the stories that influenced Milton. And then I realized that she was not a Christian. She didn't come to the text from a place of having that background in the Bible. And so for me, what was literally Sunday school stuff was for them like an insight into the literary development of this work. And so, you know, not that I was trying to get away from it, but it kept being part of my learning. Um, as I was going through, like reading, studying the Holocaust and reading, um, I'm going to say his name wrong, but like Elie Wiesel and then Wiesel. Yeah. And, um, and how much faith shaped his work. We're reading it in a secular university because of his, you know, his experiences. But yeah, it's really hard to stay away from Christianity when you live in the Western world. So, um, it always it was always there, whether I was chasing it or not. It was always part of part of the experience. And then teaching here became a matter of figuring out like, what is sort of the, the, um, what is the persona expected of a Christian school teacher and how do I not fit it? And what am I willing to do to to fit that? And is that enough for my setting? Um, and it's ended up becoming my primary like faith community is when we sit down in the staff room, even if we're just chatting about our day. You know, it influences how we talk. It influences what we say. Um, right down from, like, a staff room to a, you know, shooting the breeze outside. Um, and so I see it as a vocation because it fits, but it's not a vocation I sought out. It's one I, I found that I fit in. So.

00:08:16 Matthew Lee: Yeah, I think you. Know, then from there, how did you end up studying at ICS? Like how did you first learn about it? Um, what kind of made you decide to study at ICS as a student and in relation to like, your career as teacher, like around when did that happen?

00:08:40 Kevin Otter: Um, so it's fortuitous that we're doing this interview on Orange Shirt Day because that's that was actually my entry point. We About. Not quite fifteen years ago, we had thirty three percent of our students at this school were from Alderville First Nations, and we had good relationships with people there. The kids, you know, we loved the kids. Everyone was happy. But we never really considered what it meant to be a Christian school with thirty three percent indigenous students. And it. It became sort of this, um, question that we as a, as a school tried to answer, you know, what does a Christian school do when it let me restart? Because now I remember where it started. Um, the question started when I sent home a worksheet with a student that had a racial slur on it. And in my experience, growing up, my exposure to, you know, sort of like Hollywood cowboys and Indians, uh, you know, representations of indigenous people that were one sided or just completely wrong. It never flagged in my mind that that word was a word that was hurtful. It I had no knowledge of it beyond Peter Pan and Indian in the Cupboard by Lynne Reid Banks. And, uh, the response from Alderville was one of hurt, and also one of a willingness to see how we would respond. And without going into it too much, um, we were sort of given certain directions by, uh, I guess it wasn't advanced at the time, but whatever. Um, as to sort of how we should navigate this. And one of the things that we were told didn't quite sit well with me, because I'm sitting in a room with a woman who, inadvertently or not, I have hurt, and she was visibly upset and sharing her experience with me. And when my principal left the room to grab a box of tissues, I just told her, like, I'm sorry, um, I had no idea that this was even wrong. And you're unpacking with me a whole part of Canadian history that I had no knowledge of. And I'm a teacher. Like I teach Canadian history. I should know this stuff. And so I kind of made a commitment there. And we as a school started this commitment of we have gaps in our knowledge that can can hurt kids if we don't teach them properly or if we don't know what we're talking about. Um, so that that started a project at the school. That was a three year project of listening, learning and sharing about Alderville just the people that we knew. Um, it culminated in a musical that we put on, um, that was well attended and well received. The the kids in the classroom, uh, wrote the musical with the principal, um, from their point of view as some indigenous kids and kids with Scottish background and, you know, um, and it was through that that indigenous studies became something that we wanted to incorporate into our school curriculum. Um, so I sort of took that on as the senior history teacher after one of the ladies that, um, had sort of she had taken indigenous studies at Trent University and sort of shared her learning with us, and then she retired. And so I took that on, went to some conferences, took some courses. Um, and funny enough, I taught a couple of, um, breakout sessions at the Christian School Convention about indigenous studies and Northumberland Christian School. And that's when Edith reached out to me because she was working on her course. I think it's called Cultivating Communities of Grace now, learning Communities of grace. And she wanted to incorporate indigenous studies component. So she called me up. We met down here during Covid. I was in a office where no one could come in and I could take my mask off, and we were chatting. And I mean, Edith is a fantastic promoter of ICS as well, right? Because she's like, do you have your PhD? And I was like, no, but thank you for asking. And you know, she goes, do you have your masters? I'm like, no, um, she's like, you should study at ICS because the stuff you're doing at your school is the stuff I'm trying to do here, and it did not take long to convince me. Um, so that's how I learned about ICS. It was through Edith reaching out to me. Um, and interestingly enough, I'm still like, she still calls on me once in a while to come and talk to her class and share that story that I just shared with you. A little bit more detail, um, for her, for her course. And, uh, yeah, that was my entry point to ICS. I'm doing my project in Praxis, sort of surrounding indigenous studies at NCS. I'm just sort of refining that. Um, and it's an interesting position because I'm talking about it as a sort of a white Western European background Christian school teacher. Um, but I was reminded that that is actually a perspective that most of the teachers in our Christian school community, um, be they male or female, but like, fit that profile and need need entry point stories as well. Um, so the indigenous history stories, perspectives, um, is something that I like respectfully try to incorporate within with permission and and making sure I do my homework. Um, but also how to navigate it in a Christian school is sort of an important lesson to share. So I'm hopeful that that work will help other people who are looking to do the same thing.

00:15:10 Matthew Lee: Through your course of your study so far, kind of. What was your favorite? Do you have any very distinctively favorite moments, like favorite classes or favorite material, or like a project that you really enjoyed doing and in a very distinctive way?

00:15:27 Kevin Otter: It's kind of awkward because Mark's right there.

00:15:29 Kevin Otter: No, I'm kidding. I took an awesome Bible class with Mark.

00:15:32 Kevin Otter: But I won't tell you how much I didn't like the book. And he knows. And that's okay. No.

00:15:41 Matthew Lee: What about it? Did you.

00:15:41 Kevin Otter: Like? No. I was gonna say that's not my favorite. Although the paper I wrote in his class, the jester one, is still one of my favorite things I've ever written. Yeah, I love that paper. Um, no.

00:15:54 Mark Standish: Yeah. I would rather you not talk about that because.

00:15:56 Kevin Otter: Cool.

00:15:58 Mark Standish: Can't promote.

00:15:59 Kevin Otter: This.

00:16:00 Speaker 6: No, no, no.

00:16:01 Kevin Otter: He's right there, man.

00:16:03 Mark Standish: You're like, also like. Oh, like I'm not like an active. No.

00:16:08 Kevin Otter: No, I definitely have two favorite classes and I can tell you about those. Um, so cultivating learning communities of belonging is what it was called when I took it with Edith. But grace is what it's called now. Um, was sort of the class that she sold me on. She's like, you'll be able to to talk about what you've done at NCS and to do a project about it, but also extend it further. And it was it was excellent timing because it was close to when things had sort of. Um. Yeah. When it sort of became apparent that we weren't always doing the best job at bringing the community in line with what we were doing through indigenous studies. Uh, the kids were at that point, the students were. But we realized that there there really is. We're from a generation that did not have that incorporated into our schooling, and so were the parents. And so we looked for different ways to incorporate almost teaching families, as well as just teaching kids that were here. And so I made a website, um, it's called. Around the Wheel. And it's based on the medicine wheel, the, the Ojibwe medicine wheel. And, um, it goes through four different stages of sort of, um, like an awakening. I'm simplifying it way too much, sort of like childhood, teenage years. You're sort of like deconstruction time, and then you're elderly, you know, and it's. and it's circular. So you're always traveling, you're always learning new things. And when you first approach it, you're like a child and you have no idea what you're doing and you're making a mess, and then you're trying to make it your own. But, you know, like a typical teenager, you're learning more through mistakes than through, and then really refining your practice and figuring out what it means from an adult perspective. And now, you know, I would never claim to be like, have arrived anywhere.

00:18:06 Kevin Otter: But but using the framework of the medicine wheel really helped explain how we learn things as well. Um, so I based the I took our story and I scripted it onto this understanding of the medicine wheel, and I got to make a website that's linked to in our, in our school website. And I was helped along the way by Melody Crowe, who is a knowledge keeper in Alderville. Um, what I didn't know until a few years ago was that she was actually the first person that was shown that worksheet that I sent home as a knowledge keeper. They said, how do we respond to this? Right. She's had the experience. She works in the public school board. She's a teacher, but she's also sort of a font of knowledge for her community. And, you know, through her patience and grace, we were given a chance to sort of prove that we meant what we said when we said we were going to try to do it better and do it different. And so I was on a phone call with her a couple of years ago, and she said, Kevin, I've never told you this, but, you know, you've made me really proud because you did the thing you said you were going to do and you're still doing it. And that meant a lot, a lot. And she gave me a teaching, an indigenous teaching on sweetgrass that we share at every graduation ceremony, um, to sort of recognize the kid's journey as learners in this world. Now, where this is part of the curriculum and it's part of our of our experience being Canadian and being Christian Canadians, and how that history isn't always great, but finding a better way forward is always a possibility. So. I really enjoyed that class because it allowed me to refine sort of what we had been doing. Um, but I also really liked Gideon's course, um, the Reflective practice course, and that was because it was more personal than just my teaching career. I really explored why, you know, a a loud, rambunctious guy who often upsets people because he doesn't think before he talks, um, becomes not just a teacher, but but becomes a teacher for kids like him. So I am diagnosed with ADHD. I learned as an adult when we found out that my son had ADHD. Um, a lot of things clicked into place then and, and and sort of looking at, I don't know, tools that we use that I use to overcome sort of the setbacks that ADHD can bring. I have an agenda that's a checklist, and I follow it religiously, because if I don't, I will forget something. And I teach my class, like if I tell you I'm going to do something, you have permission to tell me to write it down and to not walk away until you've seen me write it down because I'm unreliable. Um, I, I'm a huge growth mindset person in the classroom because there's lots of things that can hold anybody back. But we can also overcome with concentration and and different strategies. And so I get to sort of exemplify that. But I also get to see things from the kids point of view. Um, you know, when I have students with ADHD or when I have students that are trouble focusing or are just bored because the content is right, I will. It's not like, well, don't be bored, work harder. I try not to say work harder to anyone because I know they're already working really hard. Um, but anyway, the the, the reflective practice allowed me to really look at why I teach, how I teach. I knew how I taught, but I'd never spent a lot of time thinking about why that was and then getting going through that experience and writing the narratives about my life and my school, um, and my community and my day. It was fascinating to me. I learned more about myself, looking at myself as the subject of study than I'd ever spent time thinking about before. So I become more intentional. But I'm also able to explain why I do certain things because of the course I took with Gideon. Um, that was really helpful. And so every morning I come in and I check in with people, and I didn't realize that I do that for two reasons. Number one, I'm a community builder. But, you know, in a way, I but I also emotionally feed off of people. And so if someone's having a bad day, I will often assume it's because of something I did. So by checking in with them. Oh, they're having a bad day because of this. Well, that gives me an opportunity to say, hey, like, is there anything I can do to help you with that? Um, as opposed to just going through my day thinking, what have I done? You know, um, and I didn't realize that about myself until I had taken that course. And now I'm, like, checking in, like, I just say the thing, right? It's not for you. It's for me. How are you? It's not because I care. It's because I need to know. It's not my fault, but they. Yeah, we all get it. Sorry. That's a lot about me.

00:23:47 Matthew Lee: Can you tell us a little bit about. I mean, you know, you're just kind of beginning it. Sure. Um, like, what do you have in mind? What's kind of the overarching theme for your project practice that you have coming up?

00:23:57 Kevin Otter: Yeah. So my practice is a refinement of the paper I wrote for Gideon's course. Um, just digging a little bit deeper into the the materials that we read, um, and seeing if there's anything I can add or refine to sort of make that a true picture. I mean, and things change a little bit between the writing of it and the handing it in. So updating it to my current status, I guess my project is currently at, um, three papers plus a Methodology paper. I am doing the same thing as we did for the Praxis, which is I'm looking at my practice and explaining it based on the research I've done on both indigenous studies and, um, sort of like reconciliation talk in Christian history, looking at the truth and reconciliation in South Africa. Um, and how and not not really comparing the two experiences, but learning from the Christian writers that were processing that at that time and now and looking at where we are as Canadians and our truth and reconciliation journey, you know, how can we avoid some of the missteps, um, what should we be aware of? But it's actually not about that at all. It's about the story of my school and myself as as a teacher in the school, approaching indigenous studies. So that first entry point, the story I told you briefly, the first paper is sort of looking at that what happened that I went my entire life and had these gaps, what caused those gaps in my in my understanding? And why did why did things happen the way they happened? Um, and so, like indigenous authors and historians and teachers have talked about this stuff, and I'm sort of taking the information and compiling it and sort of presenting it as, you know, this is why this happened. X, Y, and Z occurred so that this could happen. And we chose to do this. The second paper I'm working on now is what happens when your sort of your mission, your vocation is, is pushed in that direction. But members of your community aren't with you. And why? Why? There is pressure to not proceed with indigenous studies in Christian schools and what's holding people back. And there's a whole list of research that's gone into people who, you know, it's not just blatant racism. It's, you know, whether it's bias confirmation or whether it's just, you know, why can't we move on things like that. There's lots of things that people use as reasons to avoid, um, and that becomes more difficult even now because things are so much more polarized than they were when we started. The third paper is a look at what we what we actually do in the classroom. What does indigenous studies look like at Ncse? And it's sort of gone through the lens of two eyed seeing, which is a concept that was sort of pioneered by Albert Marshall, who's a mi'kmaq elder, um, from the East coast and he talks. So he is in the sciences. Um. Oh. Not sciences. Whatever he does, forestry and fishing and whatever that's called. And he he says that, you know, we look at the world through two eyes. He looks at the world. You know, we all look at the world through two eyes. But he wants to see two eyes, seeing as looking at a subject or an activity or something we do through an indigenous lens and a Western lens, finding the good in both so that we can move forward in a better way together. Um, and, and it's not something you do like. I don't present arguments from indigenous sources. Right. It's something that that people do. It's something that you do. Well, I see benefits here. This makes perfect sense to me. But I also see this. And you're working together as a group to to do better. Um, and I think that's what we, we would like to say, we base it on, um, that's the one I've done the least amount of work on. So I'm still like thinking it through. I've done a lot of reading, but I haven't really compiled my thoughts from it yet. As it stands, those three papers, um, plus the methodology paper, it sort of explains what I'm doing because I'm doing it the same way as the praxis. Like, here's my narrative, and then I unpack that narrative afterwards. Um, and that'll be my that'll be my project. Yeah.

00:29:07 Mark Standish: Um, just before, uh, I want to be conscious of your time. Ah. You're fine.

00:29:12 Kevin Otter: I have to give my wife my phone, because at four o'clock, I'm getting a phone call that she can answer. But other than that, we're good. Okay.

00:29:24 Matthew Lee: Oh, is it okay to keep going?

00:29:25 Kevin Otter: Yeah, absolutely. Grab a drink. Okay.

00:29:29 Matthew Lee: So, um, then in relation to your studies, like how is it that influenced, um, your teaching and, or and perhaps in a broader way, like, you know, how has your studies kind of reinforced or changed your sense of vocation as a teacher?

00:29:51 Kevin Otter: Um, I. Um. It has changed me as a teacher. I'm much more intentional. Um, I am I'm more understanding of sort of the broader story behind what what we do and what I'm doing. But at the same time, it it mostly and this is huge. This is not like a small thing, but it has given me the words to talk about what I do. Um, I would say that yes, my practice has changed after my studies at ICS, but I'm also more knowledgeable about my practice, and that's almost more beneficial because. I, I am who I am. I'm always going to be, you know, I was going to be a little rough around the edges being someone with ADHD, you know, not always the most reliable, often say things that, you know, I probably shouldn't have said. Um, but I'm also really good at modeling how to fix a mistake. Um, how to be a genuine person. How, you know, when my kids, when my students, when they're feeling self-conscious or they're feeling upset or they're feeling that they've embarrassed, um, I have ample stories to tell them of my experiences in the exact same things. And, you know, look at me. I'm still a teacher. I still do things. You know, this isn't the end of the world. Um, you know, you just didn't draw the greatest picture or something, right? Or you've. Or you made a mistake and you hurt people. But look where that got me. You know, you can, you can. You can learn more by making mistakes than you can by figuring it out right away. And I tell them that all the time. We learn by making mistakes. So and that has been the story of my career in a way. It's embarrassing to say, but it's true. Like how we move forward, um, humbly, um, hopefully with love and and making sure that the mistakes aren't so terrible that you shouldn't be moving forward. Right. Um, is is kind of the way and I think when, when I hear feedback from students or when I, you know, when they say something. Um. It's it still feels great, you know? Um, because it means that I'm doing the thing I want to be doing, and I CS has been able to give me the, the vocabulary, but also the, the practice in terms of, you know, it's important to reflect, even if that wasn't something I was used to doing before I started keeping a little journal. Um, after a writing workshop that I took with Gideon and Edith one of my first years, and I've continued to use it, although not lately. Um, but it's it's been helpful to see patterns, write patterns in my year, patterns in my, my week. Sometimes, you know, like I'm not a Monday person. Um, I think I used to blame that on transition time and the lack of caffeine, but now I know that it's because as someone with ADHD, I don't transition well, but so do. Neither do half of my kids. And so I can say to them like, this is hard and it's not. I'm not going to brush off the fact that Mondays suck for like fifty percent of us. What can we do about that? How can we change Mondays? Or what do we need to be able to overcome them? And so.

00:33:43 PA System: Great prompt. Meet me at the front door.

00:33:46 Kevin Otter: All the parents using the PA systems way more than it happens during the day. Uh, but yeah, it's I vocabulary is huge. Process is huge that I've learned through ICS and also, um, connections with other teachers, you know, sharing similar stories or, or similar teaching experiences. Um, I'm in Cobourg and they're in Hamilton, but our classrooms don't look that different. Uh, so the ability to collaborate with other teachers, um, to, to see how other people do things, um, we all did sort of the same class, but people take them in such unique directions that, um, everyone gets to, you know, be themselves, but improve their practice through that as well. I don't know. That's my answer. Thank you.

00:34:40 Matthew Lee: And well, the last question.

00:34:42 Kevin Otter: Sure.

00:34:42 Matthew Lee: Um, from me to you. You know, like. Who in your mind is the mail program for.

00:34:55 Kevin Otter: Um.

00:34:56 Matthew Lee: Like, who should be studying it in this program and why?

00:35:01 Kevin Otter: Okay. Who should study at ICS and why? Any teacher who. Has time on their hands, which is hilarious. No, no, you make you make the time because it's worth it. Um, anybody who wants to not necessarily improve their practice, although that happens naturally to think about why they do what they do to a deeper degree. Um, to, to learn more about themselves. To learn more about their craft, their their vocation, and to think about things that they may have glossed over in the past, but they're given time. One of the things I miss not being in regular courses, and I was just telling this to Edith, was that there were check ins that I have to hold myself accountable, but there were due dates and things that I had to hold myself to, and that it creates a structure that that fits within the life of a teacher. As busy as that life is. There's a structure for learning in the Ma program that that flows with your your work. Nothing I did at ICS felt like make work projects. Everything felt either really, really relevant to my practice or really, really relevant to my interests. And so I was able to just like, have fun and explore things I was interested in. Um, like the paper, right. You know, but but also, I was able to dig deep into why I do what I do and how I do it, how to do it better. Um, so I think any teacher that wants to. Both like, find out more about teaching Christianly as a Christian school teacher, teaching pedagogically as a person in this world that we live in, and also like being a person who is a Jesus follower doing those things and it all in one big package of, I don't know, fun and adventure? No, but it is fun. I'm. I'm astounded by how the teachers at ICS can make online classes feel like a community. Um, I'm envious of it because they like the simple welcomes. The check ins. The processes that we do in class Creates a sense and Gideon does it very deliberately. And I think I honestly think Edith just does it naturally. But Gideon does it intentionally because he requires so much vulnerability in his classes. We're digging into our personal stuff and sharing it with people that we don't know from a little box on a screen. But by the end of that course, I feel like if I bumped into any of those people from my class, we would have things to talk about for hours because we because, you know, community is is facilitated while you're learning about this very personal and everyone's practice is different. It reflects them. Um, but you get to be yourself in community with other people like and unlike you, but all doing the same thing. And, uh, I love it, I miss it, I miss classes.

00:38:32 Matthew Lee: Yeah, well, thank you so much.

00:38:33 Kevin Otter: No problem. Good luck editing.